      Frank,

Your stuff        has been a
         big help to me already since I encountered it not 2 weeks ago.

I don't really feel        any need to be acknowledged online, 
         but I'm happy to            be if you like doing that.  I 
         
         
           guess I'd prefer to be
associated            with Chicago, more than just with the state of Illinois.  You
could say either "Chicago,          Illinois, USA", "Chicago, Illinois", or just
"Chicago, USA".

I'm having a hell of a time maintaining              Fred for more than a few minutes
at a time (the "potent state" is what old Mathias Alexander called it, if I remember correctly).  But
it's not due to any lack of clarity or effectiveness of presentation on
your part.  I've got serious problems with several disks
in my upper

                          spine,



a condition that's been             brewing for 20 years now, and has made it
very difficult for me to make much           progress in acquiring any means of
musical expression.  At least knowing what to do now, how to approach
the discovery of an effective use of my music making apparatus (I was
drilling on finger-only movement before - and tensing up in my
forearms!), gives me confidence and courage as                       I do what I have to do next.   

I'll be seeing a doctor this week, and it will be the first time 
I'll have had anything to do with the medical establishment in 12
years.  Their chronic bafflement about my spinal and alignment issues,
not to mention anecdote after anecdote about surgical paraphrenalia left sewn up inside mysteriously declining patients, or the steep trend during the Great Financialization of the past 30 years towards "Second, do no harm; First, make a profit!" all made me into a "no doctors" crank.  And I'd be content to stay that way, falling completely apart and getting old way before my time, if it weren't for this desire to make music that I have never been able to let go of since it first started bothering me as a little kid in the 60's.  So this doctor, an osteopath (O.D.'s get the same training as M.D.'s, but they have a holistic outlook), will hopefully be able to point me to a good osteopathic specialist who can accurately diagnose the precise
mess I'm in, and, also hopefully, fix it.  I assume I'm far gone beyond
any chiropractic or similar manipulation and that they will have to get
invasive and rebuild a lot of me.  It could be months before I can even
get an appointment with this putative Brilliant Specialist, more months
before he can work me in under his knife.  And I
guess I shouldn't assume s/he'd be able to fix it all in one operation,
given the tangled up and wrecked state of me.  But from the point they're done, assuming they
don't kill or paralyze me, there will be months of healing and
probably rehab and physical therapy before Fred will ride again.  From
there I expect to be able start doing work that's fruitful for once, and
to really start getting around on my instruments (my other girlfriend is
the electric bass), and having a reason for being alive that I deeply
feel instead of just tell myself out of socialized or intellectualized
habit.

In the meantime,                       before the as yet unknown date of surgery, I intend to
do frequent, ultra-short sessions at the piano and
sometimes bass, more exploratory study than "practice" in order to get a
felt understanding of what and how to practice when my body is fixed.
A small number of lessons with teachers might be good at this point, but
that will depend on how the medical schedule shakes out and whether I
can find anyone with a mentality as open and wise as yours.  I
realize some might advise just leaving it alone until I can truly do it
right.  I want to do it now, however, for a couple of good reasons.  I
happen to have a bunch of time now, that I probably won't have later because I'm
on paid sabbatical from my programming job (a perq for 10 years'
service), and I can't really think about anything else.  Also, I'm
pretty sure it can be productive.  My arms, wrists, and hands are in
great shape and do my bidding, until, of course, my shoulders, neck, and
chest tense up, seize up, or just decide to sit funny or start twitching
or spasming.  That kind of misbehavior


doesn't necessarily always
keep the extremities from obeying or moving freely, though it might, but
it does always get physically and mentally exhausting just trying stay
upright. 

Well, Frank, I guess that would constitute the blurb about my musical
life that I was supposed to include on the sign up form at your site.
As you've gathered I think you're on the right track as far as helping
people be better musicians, so by all means keep at it!

tim . . .
